# Strategy

## Strategy - An introduction

- The means by which companies achieve their goals
-- Strategy - commanding an army

- What makes a strategy successful? It is based off of these three things
--- Simple
--- consistent; and
--- long term goals
-- Deep analysis of the competitive environment
-- Objectively and effectively exploit company resources
-- Strong-willed leaders with solid decision-making

- Strategy is about making choices; it's about deliberately choosing to be different.
-- Concept to Reality/Physical

- Excellent Decisions get you where you want to be

- The difference between Corporate and Business Strategy
-- Corporate Strategy => deals with questions related to market and industries in which the company competes. Answers where do we want to compete?
--- Which industry should the company compete in
--- Geographical Scope
--- Diversify
--- Organization - out-source/in-house
--- Alliances/Acquisitions
-- Business Strategy => How do we want to compete in the choosen market and industries? Called a competitive strategy
--- Competitve advantage
--- Manage business units
--- Monitor the industry

- The importance of the Mission, Vision, Goals and Values statements

1. Mission statement => why des the company exists? What is the reason for our organization's existence?
2. Vision statement => What do we want to achieve in the future? Who do we want to become? Include specific goals and objects.
3. Goals: Define what you want to achieve (Growth, Retention, Customer Service, Efficiency, Profitability) always in percentage
--- Objectives: Actions to achieve the goals (Achieving or taking actions in reaching that specified percentage)
--- How are we going to behave and what do we believe in?
---- Maximising Profit is important, but upholding values and principles is more important than profits. This gives you respect and character.
4. Value Statement => define values, constrains how the organisation pursues its goals and it's very important for new recruits (THIS IS IMPORTANT)
-- Impactful
-- Dynamic
-- Bold
-- Open
-- Responsible

-- Strategy is not only about competing today, it is about competing tomorrow.

## Strategy - The industry life cycle model

- Introduction
- Maturity
- Growth
- Decline
