# What Makes A Great Architect

## The Architect Job Description

- Main Responsibilities of the Architect
-- Collaborate with the Team
-- Use Tools and Methodologies
-- Develop High level Specifications

- Brief Job of the Architect
"... make intuitive high level decisions. You will see the big picture and create architectural approaches for software design and implementation to guide the development team."

"... strong technical background and excellent IT skills. Experienced in designing unified vision for software characteristics and functions."

"... provide a framework for the development of a software or system that will result in high quality IT solutions."

- Responsibilities of the Architect
-- Collaborate with team to draft functional and non-functional requirements
-- Use tools and methodologies to create representations for functions and UIs
-- Develop high-level product specifications
-- Define all aspects of development
-- Communicate all concepts and guidelines to development team
-- Oversee progress of development team
-- Provide technical guidance and coaching to developers and engineers
-- Ensure software meets all requirements
-- Approve final product before launch

- Responsibilities of Great Architects
-- Insight
--- A great architect abstracts the complexity of a system into manageable model.
---- The model describes the essence of a system by exposing important details and significant constriants.
--- Taking complex data and give the Simpliest possible representation of a solution in the design
--- Understand Tradeoffs => A great architect makes critical decisions in terms of implementation, operations and maintenance
---- These decisions must be backed up by an understanding and evaluation of alternative options.
---- These decisions result in tradeoffs that must be well documented and understood by others.
---- Master skills of trade-offs
-- Leadership
--- Maintain Control => Architecture evolves over the lifecycle of the systems
--- The implementation may deviate from the architecture. You must contact the Lead Developer to stay within the architectural boundaries
--- Stay on-course => when project encounters scope creeps (add feature when development started, .etc); you need flexibility.
--- A great architect stays on course in line with the long term vision.
--- when confronted with scope creep, the architect must know when to say no to some requests in order to say yes to others.
-- Vision
--- Focus on the big picture (high-level build, helicopter view, holistic view or holistic vision)
--- Act as Change Agent
---- A great architect acts as an agent of change in organizations where process maturity is not sufficient for creating and maintaining the architecture
-- Communication
--- A great architect works closely with executives to explain the benefits and justify the investment in the chosen software architecture.
--- He or she must deliver results that have an impact on the bottom line.
--- Be able to sell it to management
--- Have the understanding of the business charges => money, faster/performance, more customers, dazzle a certain sector that is lagging behind in technology, .etc.
--- Inspire all stakeholders that the architecture you designed is represented.
--- Absolute stellar communication skills

- Personality Traits of Great Architects
-- Steadfast
--- The only thing constant in Software Development is change itself. A great architect must be patient and resilient to adapt to the way stakeholders operate.
-- Trustworthy
--- A great architect conveys a sense of credibility and trust, and must be perceived as successful.
--- An architect can attain such status by prior successful experience, formal training in the field, and by his or her ability to deliver successful and relevant results.
--- Have lots of reference projects
--- Have credentials => less powerful than references
--- Earn trust => once delivered
-- Persuasive
--- A great architect is a skilled and diplomatic negotiator. Principled negotiation is the tactic of choice for an architect to seek mutual cooperation with the project stakeholders.
--- An architect will be expected to deliver better, faster and cheaper, but must negotiate to decide which two out of three aspects will be considered first and under what conditions.
-- Confidence
--- In a leadership position, attitude is everything. A great architect believes in his or her ability to perform.
--- An architect must have a pssion for success

- Common Pitfalls For Architects
-- Failures are caused by people not using their power
--- Implicit Power
---- Power that is implied, because you are a CEO
--- Granted Power
---- Granted by someone. Team granted Lead to lead developer
--- Personal Power
---- Power within

1 Lead Developer Loses Trust
-- Developers are affected
-- Architect is not trusted by Lead Developer.
--- If Lead Developer losses trust in Architect, Lead Developer is granted power

- endless discussions, implementation starts to deviate from architecture
- Remember: your job is to make your LD succeed!

- How to resolve this?
-- Empower your LD
-- Alwyas present an united front
-- Be open to feedback
-- Change architecture if needed

2 Functional Requirements Are Invalid
-- Sneak ups on the Architect
-- Functional Analyst knows about the error, realizes it and still does it
-- For some reason the FA has no engagement with URs and passes invalid specs to architect.
-- BEWARE: This will come to bite you!

- How to resolve this?
-- Find the reason
-- Try to restore the personal power of the FA
-- Escalate up if needed and make sure the problem is addressed

3 The Planning Is Too Optimistic
-- QA is ignored
-- Lead Developer is coding and not doing code review. LD is robbed of personal power
-- Project Manager is not aware of what is happening and does not realize that there is a problem
--- The PM operates in isolation, far away from the dev team
--- This puts pressure on the LD and QA
--- Both feel disempowered
--- REMEMBER: your job is to make your LD succeed!

- How to resolve this?
-- Bring the PM in on the dev team
-- Find the reason: optimistic PM, naive LD, or slow devs?
-- Coach LD/Restructure devs/Readjust schedule/Alter planning

4 The Architect Role Holds No Power
-- The organization doesn't understand the architect role. SA is not at the center of decision making. Implicit role power is missing.
-- BEWARE: the project will probably fail!

- How to resolve this?
-- Educate the C-section, be a change-maker
-- Team up with PM, QA, FA and LD
-- Become the owner of the entire process
-- Leave if the organization is unwilling to change
